---
layout: post
title: My Experience With Famo.us
description: "Famous and building 2048"
modified: 2014-01-28
tags: [2048, Famous, Famo.us]
description: "My first encounter with the Famous animation library."
image: famous.png
comments: true
share: true
---


# [2048 in Famo.us aka "20.48"](http://blog.kwyn.io/20.48/)

## Background

I got my hands on the beta for Famo.us. The new hot framework that was just released this past month. I spent a week with it and produced a clone of 2048 found [here](http://harleykwyn.com/20.48/) using pure famous. There is nothing contained in the body of the html file.

As of the beta release there is relatively slim documentation with somewhat arcane wording.

# Addressing the UX of this implementation

The point was to make fancy animations and play with the problems of positioning stuff in famo.us when it comes to a simple game like 2048. I spent the lions share of my time porting the 2048 JavaScript source code into the famo.us frame work. I focused mostly on making things move in interesting 3D ways than I was focused on changing colors and updating that. I could continue developing it but it was a toy project and I'm moving on to more interesting things.

## Require JS

Their yeoman file they use as a seed utilizes require.js . I'd never touched require.js before and had only ever heard it being used in Backbone apps. Famous's entire framework is eerily similar to that of backbone so it does make sense that they would decide to incorporate require.js. This makes it extremely difficult to incorporate existing logic of an app into this seed file that they give you. I managed to figure it out none the less though. However, I think it's quite possibly an extra layer of complexity that is unnecessary.

## The Terminology

What is a transitionable? Why is it called a transitionable? Is that word?
Also I'm still uncertain if performant is a word but I suppose it is now. Also a transitionable is basically just a state holder for the surface matrix. Perhaps that's more confusing to most people but I wish it was described as that to me.

## Architecture and Syntax

The syntax, It reminds me once again of backbone. Every view can have subviews and it's a bit tricky understanding the paradigm in which you should be programming something. Generally speaking You should only use one context object which is explained in one of the two guides they have out right now. This makes sense to me but having to split up the code based on subviews get quite verbose and bulky and I feel like I'm starting to write in Java instead of JavaScript again with a fleet of files just for a simple 2048 application.

The idea is though that ever single Famo.us surface object can have Modifiers pre-pended to them that change what happens to them. You can then subsequently alter these modifiers by referencing them and calling `.set*` on them where the * represents some part of the modifier you want to update. Theres some deep layers of complexity here but this is the basics. The most common ones I used ended up being `.setTransform` and `.setOpacity`. `.setTransform` because it was the simplest way to move things around and `.setOpacity` because you can't remove elements in the Famo.us frame work. At least not yet. I've heard they're  working on an elegant solution for this problem.

### BIND EVERYTHING

Along with the architecture comments I have to day I'm not sure if this is a flaw or a feature but it seriously seems like  you need to bind every statement you make when it comes to surfaces. In this sense the backbone like architecture of the file system makes sense so you don't get jumbled up in different contexts... well javascript contexts not Famo.us contexts... I suppose that's confusing too.

## Documentation

As I was saying the documentation is just not there yet. It needs a lot of work. It basically tells you what it's expecting and what it out puts not not always what the function is suppose to do. There's a physics library but there's not really any explanation on how to make animations with it and I believe maybe transitionables are involved, whatever those may be. (I jest though. Transitionables are state holders for generally for transform matrices but can be used for anything you need to keep track of.)

## The Render Tree

They want to obscure this factor but I really think they should bring it to the forefront of their documentation. There was at one point a decent guide on their site about what the render tree was and how it works. This is basically how viewing and sub viewing as well as modifiers are organized in the Famo.us frame work. Once this was explained to me it was much simpler to understand how to interact with the library and be able to make intuitive animations.

## Eventing

They have a built in event system that allows you to just simply import one of their eventing objects and use it locally in a view. To communicate between views you have to subscribe to the \_.eventInput and \_.eventOutput of different views. I didn't manage to figure out how exactly to use this quite yet as it was a bit confusing and felt a bit verbose. On the other hand you could once again view this as a feature instead of a hindrance because you can ensure that specific events are only listened to by specific views and surfaced and other various JavaScript objects.

# Takeaway

I think Famo.us is providing something that is missing in how it can tie in CSS animations with a physics engine all in an awesome high level language like JavaScript. I'm excited to see more information on the physics parts of their library which is what I think is probably the most promising as I'm uncertain what it provides that [GSAP](http://www.greensock.com/gsap-js/) doesn't.

Famo.us is in beta however, so I'm sure there's great stuff to come.
