---
layout: post
title:  "Yosemite Easter Weekend. Thank Jesus for tape."
date:   2016-05-29
excerpt: "The importance of doing your research"
images: FingerLickin-Spang.jpg
tag:
- climbing
- epic
- blog
---
It's getting late and I'm sitting in bed with my hair dripping with from a much needed shower. Contemplating the weekends events with a tired, and yet zen, smile on my face. A long drive back riddled with traffic jams from the easter weekend rush. None of it bothers me. High on a great weekend with four friends, three of which are in the car of me. The other has headed up to Tahoe to find his next place to live. Even though my body is aching from what seems like ever point on my body yet no particular point I'm feeling quite high. A weekend cragging off of 140 in Yosemite with the constant sound of the rushing Merced River is just what I needed. 140 is known for it's stout climbing and short approaches, a perfect training ground during the winter and early season.

Rubbing the weird tear in the center of my palm, the sweet stinging sensation brings back memories of the rough granite that has given me the perplexing wound. Climbing a route call Chingando (Spanish for "Fucking") I managed to come away with this odd wound. It's typical to get tears on the upper parts of your palm and the back of your hand crack climbing but I some how managed to get a tiny little gobbie in the the center of my palm. Fingers crossed it heals in the next weeks so I can keep climbing.

There's something odd about granite climbing, there's a certain dry earthy smell to it. the rocks is simultaniously extremely rough but also extremely polished. The hard pointed yet brittle edges brushed away by climber after climber struggling their way up to the top of these short beautiful lines. Ironically making it harder and harder for the next enchanted soul who decides to touch the beautiful rock in hopes of a send. This constant wearing away reveals the little knobs and bumps of harder rock that make up the homogeneous mixture of unmoving stone.

My hands ache from shoving them in cracks all weekend. This is what me and mine do for fun. We laugh giddily at eachother after we've finished a climb whether or not we managed to get the send, or we swore or cried or found our selves praying to some deity or asking ourselves why we even thought this was a good idea in the first place as we find our selves attempting to ring lock on some shallow crack or stuck in a squeeze chimney with seemingly no juice left. We keep climbing because it pushes us, because that feeling of winning a battle is just too sweet to give up. Also because sometimes, it's just plain fun.

As I rack up to climb a route called "Fun Flake" at the Figner Lickin' crag just off of Yosemite I wonder if this is a bad idea. It'd been a good 3-4 months since I last lead a climb. The last thing I lead was a 5.8 in Joshua Tree, which I also send and actually considered quite fun. I just haven't had to lead anything quite like this. My friend cheer me on but I still question myself until it's all too real as I ask my belay "You ready" and he responds "Crush it" and I start my way up slotting the first hand jam right at the grounds and starting to negotiate the odd over hanging bulge that is close the ground and leads to a wider crack that is slightly too large to get a hand jam but too big to get a fist or cupped hands hold in. So I resort to the tilted fist jam, not necessarily something anyone taught me but just something I'd come upon myself. It's quite painful and strenuous but it gets the job done. "You're cruising it!" yells Pat from the ground as I finally notice that I'm suddenly 20 feet off the ground and Pat's like "You should think about placing your second piece" I slot blue three and keep moving. I don't want to waste mush time in this section as I know I'm going to need my energy as I get farther up to the "Fun Flake". I'm feeling pretty good at this point. My tape gloves are serving me well and I feel very comfortable in this terrain until I get to the flake which leaves me wondering that my next move is. It's not so obvious now that there's more than s ingle crack feature in front of me as well as a few small crimps I could potentially use for balance as the the most obvious crack has become useless for jamming. I scan around, my brain spinning for possible solutions. Small cracks are too small, I eventually decide I'm wasting time trying to figure out the bet and slot a small yellow alien in a thin crack. I milk the resting stance as I realize the next bit is going to be the hard part as the crack continues to widen towards the top. Looking up at the gapping maw as if it's laughing at me, daring me to come up. I can just spot the bolts with the two draws that Jeremey so kindly left for me. The seem so close. That's the funny thing when your climbing. Even two inches can be minutes away depending on the terrain your on. Nothing is a gimmy. You have to battle gravity for every inch but it's also your friend as this is what lets you jam in cracks and step on the tiniest of features to help propel you up wards. However, you make one unstable shakey move and gravity will always remind you of that mistake. I take my time at the top of the crack where I've now slotted the largest cam I've ever places. a number 5. It's my favorite color I think to myself, this must be a good sign. I can do this next technical move. I see the knob I'm suppose to crimp on but the feet seem non existent except for the chimney which I could potentially heal-toe cam in or get a knee bar, which I'm still extremely shakey at executing. It takes me some time to build up my courage staring at the large cam that will always seem like miracle of engineering to me. Will that hunk of metal really hold me if I blow this move? I sure fucking hope so because my next piece is far too low to protect me of anything if it blows. I finally commit to the move, spreading myself out, getting a knee bar, then finally stepping on a feature I didn't even thing I could stand on, pausing for an exhausting moment and making the lunge for the hand jam in a flake just right and below the anchors. I pull myself up and grab the rings and clip the rope in and yell down to my belay partner and friends "SEND!" also "Take and lower!" I'm buzzed. I can't believe it, my first 5.9, a notoriously tricky grade too. Often people under estimate it because some how the double digit barrier of 5.10 psychs people out. I'm getting closer to being strong enough and skilled enough to start climbing interesting things without the need of a rope gun. I've still got a long way to go, this is just about the year marker in which I started climbing. I don't know the exact date but I do have many nostalgic memories about learning to belay in my old apartment on my bike rack that wouldn't stop moving and proved to not be the best tool, but none the less I learned.
